>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about
server-side rendering, this is like,
you wouldn't probably do both
of these at the same time.
I don't know, honestly, I could fathom
ways that you could do these together, but
it's way outside the scope of this class,
maybe it's not.
So, I could see you statically generating
like the shell of your app, like a larger
React app like generating the HTML tag,
the body tag, the head tag with static
site generation, and then only server-side
rendering the actual interior app.
Actually, I could see that
being a really valid use case,
I think that's actually
technically what Next does for
you because Next controls the entire app,
not just the interior app.
So it is like a combination of
techniques being put together here,
but let's talk about
server-side rendering.
So first thing I'm gonna say is V5 of
this course goes pretty in depth on,
look at that handsome gentleman down
there, in terms of just covering
how to take an entire React app and
move it to server-side rendering.
So if that brownfield migration
is interesting to you,
I got questions of, why you find
brownfield migrations interesting,
but this, this would be helpful for
those activities, right?
But this one's gonna focus on
a much more shallow focus of,
here's how you would set up
server-side rendering just for
a new app that you were doing,
generally speaking.
And again, we're gonna try and
keep this as just minimal as possible, so
we can focus on just the server-side
rendering portion of that.
And if you wanna get again,
more into the weeds of that,
check out V5 nothing has changed,
it's totally 100% valid.
Yeah, we spent a bunch of time on
it last time, because that used to
be like the state of the art when it
came to the server component of React.
So I have this open image,
a new tab, lovely,
beautiful diagram,
it's perfect, [LAUGH] right?
No, I made this with excalidraw,
just trying to help you visualize,
like the React request cycle, so
the user requests the app here on
the left, they get the index.html.
The server receives a request, it doesn't
just sends back the entire React bundle
and the entire HTML shell,
it does nothing, right?
The browser then receives
it parses the JavaScript,
it then executes the JavaScript, and
at the end, when all of that entire React
cycle has happened, the user finally
sees an interactive app, right?
It's all like it goes from zero to done,
and there's no intermediary
steps at the end, time to interactive and
time to first meaningful paint.
If you're into those performance metrics,
end up being within a millisecond of
each other,
if not being literally the same thing.
It's like the normal browser request
cycle, you could say the same thing about
Angular or Vue or any of those if they're
in the same client-side rendering thing.
What if we could make it a little
bit better in terms of perceived
performance that the user sees
something before it's interactive?
Well, just think about it for a second,
let's actually just pull up the diagram,
so that's probably helpful.
Open image, a new tab, so what if we
could separate these two motions here,
where, when the user sees the app and
when the app is actually useful.
That tends to be better perceived
performance of actually,
technically, time to interactive
will be a bit slower,
almost without exception,
that that will be true,
but that's good,
because the user will see the app.
It takes, like, 100, 200 milliseconds for
the human brain to just process that,
I'm quoting someone that I read
online said, I'm not a psychologist.
Don't trust my metrics, but
that's what I remember reading,
that it takes a human about that long
to decide what they wanna do, and
by the time that they actually
go to click on something,
the app will probably have bootstrapped
and then be interactive by that point.
So the user is gonna perceive that the app
has gone faster, does that make sense?
So it's faster perceived performance,
even if,
though the actual performance is
unchanged, even if a little bit worse.
So the key here is this little step
here where you pre render the page
before you send that.
So you're actually sending them complete
markup of the first render of the page,
and then you're sending the React
bundle with it as well.
So that the user sees inert,
normal HTML that the browser is parsed and
then displays, and then later, the React
app panics and takes over, right?
And then makes everything interactive,
that is the entire premise of what
server-side rendering is for reactors,
how can we show them something sooner,
so they start thinking about
their decision sooner.
This has a variety of impacts,
imagine that I'm on a iPhone,
what is it, 16 Pro is that the latest one?
iPhone 19 Pro, right?
And I'm just standing next
to the Wi-Fi access point,
to the point that I'm getting sick
from all the radiation, right?
This probably doesn't really help me
that much, because my device is so
fast and my internet connection is so
fast, right?
If anything,
it's actually probably slowing me down,
because now my server
requests are taking longer,
my device could have received it and
rendered it faster.
Now perceive that you're camping outside
of Yellowstone, where notoriously has
crappy reception, and you're on some
old Android, crappy device, right?
This could actually be
a massive difference, right?
In terms of just perceived performance,
that you can actually start
seeing things and be like, okay,
what do I want to do about this, or
I can see all the information, right?
And it's gonna take my device
forever to render, and
the internet connection can be quite
flaky or finicky or something like that.
So I hope you're seeing that the persona
and what your app does is extremely
important contextually about
why this could not be useful.
If you're making Uber for helicopters in
San Francisco, this is probably not that
helpful, because they probably
all have nice devices, right?
And they're probably all in San Francisco,
where there's pretty decent Wi-Fi
throughout the city, actually,
surprisingly, in parts of the city,
terrible reception.
But that's not anything to do with this
course, that's just me complaining.
But if you're building like,
I don't know, a cropped tracker for
rural Montana or
rural Wyoming or rural India or
something like that, yeah,
this make a big difference, right?
But know your user, that's a big
thing here and measure, right?
Make sure that you're actually making a
difference because this tool can actually
make things worse.
Again, a lot of these
things are not slam dunks,
they're just different techniques
that can apply in certain situations.
So yeah, SSR, server-side rendering
carries complexity, so a good example is,
if everything's browser based, you can
just assume the browser APIs always exist.
So for example, if you want to fire off
like a Google Analytic event on when
a component does something.
If you're not server-side rendering,
you can go willy-nilly and
do it anywhere that you want to.
It doesn't really matter if you're doing
server-side rendering that can't be in
the hot path of what runs on the server,
because the browser APIs don't exist on
the server, and you will crash right?
So that complexity ends up being
important, we talked about that,
and please measure.
I harp on this quite a bit specifically
because at Netflix, we did this, and
we found in places this
didn't actually help,
it actually made things worse in places,
and that's at Netflix scale, right?
So that's like the entire gamut,
we took it out in places.
>> Speaker 2: Do you recommend measuring?
>> Brian Holt: Just eyeball it, no, I'm
kidding [LAUGH] Google Analytics will give
you a really good, portrait of,
this is when your first paint was.
Actually the Chrome DevTools
are really good for this,
the Firefox ones are improving as well,
where you can see time to first
meaningful paint, time to interactive.
Those are the three metrics that you want
to really first meaningful paint and
time to interactive.
Lighthouse will give you
these metrics as well, and
I'm sure there's other tools that will.
But any front end focused performance
analytics give you pretty good
metrics on that.
>> Speaker 2: You need to instrument
the server as well to catch both
sides of Otter.
>> Brian Holt: Probably, yeah, the time
to response, depending on how heavy your
component is and what kinda server
you're running and all that stuff.
If you're running your home server on
Raspberry Pi, one good for you, but
it's gonna meaningfully suffer
even on small components.
But if you're running
an extra large on AWS,
you're probably not gonna see
too much of a difference.
But yeah, to get the full picture,
you would have to do that,
for example, we're gonna do Fastify.
I think there's a Fastify library to
actually include your server-side metrics
in your Chrome Dev Tools, so you can
actually see the entire life cycle.
Including all your database query and
all that stuff, so
instrumenting your node
server would help as well.